### GDPR
- Started in May 2018
- National/International law that regulates how data is stored and used
- Applies to all orgs processing, handling or storing the personal data of individuals residing in the EU, regardless of where the organisation is located.
- ##### Key Roles
	- **Data Controllers**: determine the purpose and means of processing personal data. Controllers must ensure contracts with *data processors* comply with the GDPR.
	- **Data Processors**: process data on behalf of the *data controller*. Data processors are required to maintain records of all data and processing activities. In the event of a data breach, they are liable.
- ##### Key Principles
	- **Lawfulness, Fairness and Transparency**: Data processing must be lawful, fair and completely transparent to the subject whose data is being collected.
	- **Purpose Limitation**: Data must be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not used beyond the purposes agreed to before collection.
	- **Purpose Minimisation**: Minimal data should be collected - don't collect any more than strictly necessary.
	- **Accuracy**: Data should be correct and kept up to date
	- **Storage Limitations**: Data should be kept for no longer than necessary
	- **Integrity and Confidentiality**: Data should be processed in a manner that has appropriate security. For instance, security against unauthorised or unlawful processing and accidental loss or theft.
- ##### Individual Rights
	- **Right of Access**: You have the right to access your personal data, and obtain info about how it is processed.
	- **Right to Rectification**: You can have your data corrected if it is inaccurate or incomplete.
	- **Right of Erasure (Right to be Forgotten)**: You can request for data pertaining to you to be deleted (under certain circumstances).
	- **Right to Restrict Processing**: You can request the restriction of processing of your data.
	- **Right of Portability**: You can obtain your data, in a format that can be used across different services.
	- **Right to Object**: Individuals can opt-out of all processing of their personal data.
	- **Rights related to Automated Decision Making and Profiling**: you are protected against decisions made solely by automated mechanisms.
- ##### Obligations for Organisations
	- **Data protection by design and default**: Data should be protected always on purpose and by design. This should be the default.
	- **Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIAs)**: If data is being used to determine some high-risk outcome (eg. immigration), an assessment must be made and made public.
	- **Data Breach Notifications**: In the event of an breach, organisations are required to notify the relevant authorities (Information Commissioner's Office in the UK) and individuals.
	- **Data Protection Officers**: Required for organisations to have a person or office that can be contacted for GDPR matters.
	- **International Transfers**: If data is collected on citizens whom the GDPR applies, if transferred outside of GDPR countries, the GDPR still applies. There may also be further regulations.
	- *Organisations in breach of the GDPR can face 20 million euro fines, or 4% of operating revenue, whichever is higher.*